
Use Change Sets feature of CloudFormation - When you need to update a stack, understanding how your changes will affect running resources before you implement them can help you update stacks with confidence. Change sets allow you to preview how proposed changes to a stack might impact your running resources, for example, whether your changes will delete or replace any critical resources, AWS CloudFormation makes the changes to your stack only when you decide to execute the change set, allowing you to decide whether to proceed with your proposed changes or explore other changes by creating another change set. Change sets are not useful for the given use-case.


Use Drift Detection feature of CloudFormation

Drift detection enables you to detect whether a stack's actual configuration differs, or has drifted, from its expected configuration. Use CloudFormation to detect drift on an entire stack, or individual resources within the stack. A resource is considered to have drifted if any of its actual property values differ from the expected property values. This includes if the property or resource has been deleted. A stack is considered to have drifted if one or more of its resources have drifted.

To determine whether a resource has drifted, CloudFormation determines the expected resource property values, as defined in the stack template and any values specified as template parameters. CloudFormation then compares those expected values with the actual values of those resource properties as they currently exist in the stack. A resource is considered to have drifted if one or more of its properties have been deleted, or had their value changed.

You can then take corrective action so that your stack resources are again in sync with their definitions in the stack template, such as updating the drifted resources directly so that they agree with their template definition. Resolving drift helps to ensure configuration consistency and successful stack operations.


Xray Advantages
  >Troubleshoot performance (bottlenecks)
  >Understand dependencies of the microservice architecture
  >Pinpoint service issues
  >Review request behavior
  >find error and exceptions
  >are we meeting time SLA
  >throttling
  >identify users impacted


Segments: sent by each application /service
Subsegments : more granular details of segments
Trace : segments collected together to form an end to end trace
Sampling : decrease the amount of requests sent to xray
Annotations : key/value pair used to index traces for filtering
Metadata : key/value pair, not indexed and not used for searching


Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring service that allows you to monitor your applications, respond to system-wide performance changes, optimize resource utilization, and get a unified view of operational health. It is used to monitor your applications' performance and metrics.



